# S 296: Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act

- Congress: 119
- Origin chamber: Senate
- Introduced: 2025-01-29
- Latest action: 2025-01-29 - Introduced in Senate
- Policy area: Water Resources Development
- Sponsor: Sen. Bennet, Michael F. [D-CO]
- Congress.gov: https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/senate-bill/296
- Date accessed: 2026-06-01T04:21:25.748028+00:00

## Summary

**Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act**

This bill reduces payments that communities within the Arkansas River Valley must pay to the Bureau of Reclamation for the construction of the Arkansas Valley Conduit, a pipeline in Colorado for delivering water from the Pueblo Reservoir to such communities. Specifically, it removes interest payments and extends the repayment period to 100 years.

## Text Versions

### Introduced in Senate
- Date: 2025-01-29
- Formatted XML: https://www.govinfo.gov/bulkdata/BILLS/119/1/s/BILLS-119s296is.xml


## Full Bill Text

### Introduced in Senate
- Date: 2025-01-29
- Source: https://www.govinfo.gov/bulkdata/BILLS/119/1/s/BILLS-119s296is.xml

II
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
S. 296
IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES
January 29, 2025 Mr. Bennet (for himself and Mr. Hickenlooper ) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
A BILL
To make certain modifications to the repayment for the Arkansas Valley Conduit in the State of Colorado.
#### 1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Finish the Arkansas Valley Conduit Act .
#### 2. Arkansas Valley Conduit, Colorado
Public Law 87–590 (76 Stat. 389) is amended—
**(1)**
in subsection (c) of the first section (76 Stat. 390; 123 Stat. 1320), in the second sentence—
**(A)**
by inserting , without interest, before in an amount ;
**(B)**
by striking that is comprised of revenue generated by payments and inserting , which payment shall only consist of funding provided during construction from any person other than the Secretary ;
**(C)**
by inserting of before revenue that ; and
**(D)**
by inserting over a period of 100 years after project facilities ; and
**(2)**
in section 2(b)(3)(A) (76 Stat. 390; 123 Stat. 1321)—
**(A)**
by striking plus interest ; and
**(B)**
by striking this section and inserting subsection (c) of the first section .


## Timeline

- 2025-01-29: Introduced in Senate
- 2025-01-29 - IntroReferral: Introduced in Senate
- 2025-01-29 - IntroReferral: Read twice and referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources.
- Latest action: 2025-01-29: Introduced in Senate
