# HR 4955: CLEAN Pacific Act of 2025

- Congress: 119
- Origin chamber: House
- Introduced: 2025-08-12
- Latest action: 2025-08-12 - Introduced in House
- Policy area: International Affairs
- Sponsor: Del. Moylan, James C. [R-GU-At Large]
- Congress.gov: https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/4955
- Date accessed: 2026-06-01T04:21:25.748028+00:00

## Text Versions

### Introduced in House
- Date: 2025-08-12
- Formatted XML: https://www.govinfo.gov/bulkdata/BILLS/119/1/hr/BILLS-119hr4955ih.xml


## Full Bill Text

### Introduced in House
- Date: 2025-08-12
- Source: https://www.govinfo.gov/bulkdata/BILLS/119/1/hr/BILLS-119hr4955ih.xml

I
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. R. 4955
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
August 12, 2025 Mr. Moylan (for himself, Mr. Case , Mrs. Radewagen , and Ms. King-Hinds ) introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs
A BILL
To establish the Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative to assist certain countries with counterdrug interdiction efforts.
#### 1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Combating Lethal Elements and Narcotics in the Pacific Act of 2025 or the CLEAN Pacific Act of 2025 .
#### 2. Establishment of the Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative
##### (a) Establishment
The Secretary shall establish a Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative program to assist beneficiary countries with the following:
**(1)**
Improving and increasing the rates at which listed chemicals are seized and destroyed.
**(2)**
Alleviating the backlog of—
**(A)**
listed chemicals to be destroyed; and
**(B)**
hazardous waste, generated by illicit drug trafficking, to be disposed of in an environmentally safe and effective manner.
**(3)**
Ensuring that seized listed chemicals are not reintroduced into illicit drug production streams.
**(4)**
Freeing up storage space for seized listed chemicals.
**(5)**
Reducing the environmental impact of listed chemicals and associated waste.
**(6)**
Promoting international law enforcement efforts, such as international training and interoperable systems and other shared equipment.
**(7)**
Improving the capability of, and infrastructure necessary for, law enforcement to seize and destroy listed chemicals.
##### (b) Implementation plan
**(1) In general**
Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan explaining the manner in which the Secretary will implement the Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative program established in subsection (a).
**(2) Components**
The implementation plan required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
**(A)**
A timeline for when assistance to beneficiary countries will begin.
**(B)**
A 5-year strategy for each beneficiary country that includes a timeline, budgetary projections, anticipated outcomes, and an overview of objectives.
**(C)**
Specific, measurable benchmarks to track the progress beneficiary countries make towards achieving the outcomes listed under subsection (a).
**(D)**
The roles and responsibilities of each relevant Secretary, their respective department, and any other Federal department or agency in carrying out the Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative program.
**(E)**
A plan to address security vulnerabilities and corruption risks, that directly impede the seizure, storage, and destruction of listed chemicals, in each beneficiary country.
**(F)**
A plan to update the appropriate congressional committees on the results of the Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative program.
**(G)**
An itemized list, for each beneficiary country, of the law enforcement capabilities the Secretary determines—
**(i)**
are necessary within the beneficiary country to achieve the outcomes listed under subsection (a);
**(ii)**
are not offered by law enforcement in the beneficiary country; and
**(iii)**
that law enforcement in the beneficiary country are capable of offering.
**(H)**
An itemized list, for each beneficiary country, of the law enforcement capabilities the Secretary determines—
**(i)**
are necessary within the beneficiary country to achieve the outcomes listed under subsection (a);
**(ii)**
are not offered by law enforcement in the beneficiary country;
**(iii)**
that law enforcement in the beneficiary country are not capable of offering; and
**(iv)**
that the United States is capable of offering to law enforcement in the beneficiary country.
**(3) Annual progress report**
Not later than 1 year after the date on which the implementation plan is required to be submitted under paragraph (1), and annually thereafter for 5 years, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the results of the Pacific Counternarcotics Initiative program from the previous fiscal year, including—
**(A)**
the progress of each beneficiary country participating in such program towards achieving the outcomes listed under subsection (a);
**(B)**
with respect to each beneficiary country participating in such program, compliance with, and progress toward, meeting the benchmarks listed for each such country in the implementation plan; and
**(C)**
the type and quantity of listed chemicals destroyed by each beneficiary country participating in such program from the previous fiscal year.
#### 3. Funding
The Secretary of State shall use amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated to carry out section 481 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 ( 22 U.S.C. 2291 ) to carry out this Act.
#### 4. Definitions
In this Act:
**(1) Appropriate congressional committees**
The term appropriate congressional committees means—
**(A)**
the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
**(B)**
the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate.
**(2) Beneficiary countries**
**(A) In general**
Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term beneficiary countries means—
**(i)**
the Cook Islands;
**(ii)**
the Federated States of Micronesia;
**(iii)**
the Republic of Fiji;
**(iv)**
French Polynesia;
**(v)**
the Republic of Kiribati;
**(vi)**
the Republic of Nauru;
**(vii)**
New Caledonia;
**(viii)**
Niue;
**(ix)**
the Republic of Palau;
**(x)**
the Independent State of Papua New Guinea;
**(xi)**
the Republic of Marshall Islands;
**(xii)**
the Independent State of Samoa;
**(xiii)**
the Solomon Islands;
**(xiv)**
the Kingdom of Tonga;
**(xv)**
Tuvalu; and
**(xvi)**
the Republic of Vanuatu.
**(B) Updates**
The Secretary may add or remove any country from the list under subparagraph (A) after providing written notification of such change to the appropriate congressional committees.
**(3) Listed Chemical**
The term listed chemical has the meaning given such term in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 802 ).
**(4) Relevant Secretary**
The term relevant Secretary means the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, and the Attorney General.
**(5) Secretary**
The term Secretary means the Secretary of State in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Attorney General, except as otherwise specified.
**(6) Interoperable systems**
The term interoperable systems means communications, data sharing, and operational equipment that enables seamless coordination between beneficiary countries and United States law enforcement agencies.


## Timeline

- 2025-08-12: Introduced in House
- 2025-08-12 - IntroReferral: Introduced in House
- 2025-08-12 - IntroReferral: Introduced in House
- 2025-08-12 - IntroReferral: Referred to the House Committee on Foreign Affairs.
- Latest action: 2025-08-12: Introduced in House
