# HR 6452: Executive Transparency Act

- Congress: 119
- Origin chamber: House
- Introduced: 2025-12-04
- Latest action: 2025-12-04 - Introduced in House
- Policy area: Government Operations and Politics
- Sponsor: Rep. Lawler, Michael [R-NY-17]
- Congress.gov: https://www.congress.gov/bill/119th-congress/house-bill/6452
- Date accessed: 2026-06-01T04:21:25.748028+00:00

## Text Versions

### Introduced in House
- Date: 2025-12-04
- Formatted XML: https://www.govinfo.gov/bulkdata/BILLS/119/1/hr/BILLS-119hr6452ih.xml


## Full Bill Text

### Introduced in House
- Date: 2025-12-04
- Source: https://www.govinfo.gov/bulkdata/BILLS/119/1/hr/BILLS-119hr6452ih.xml

I
119th CONGRESS
1st Session
H. R. 6452
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
December 4, 2025 Mr. Lawler introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform
A BILL
To amend title 5, United States code, to require certain officials to provide an annual briefing to certain congressional committees.
#### 1. Short title
This Act may be cited as the Executive Transparency Act .
#### 2. Annual briefing to Congress
##### (a) Annual briefing to Congress
Subchapter II of chapter 29 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
2955. Annual briefing to Congress The following officials shall provide an annual briefing, in such form and manner as the applicable committees may require, to the corresponding congressional committees: (1) The Secretary of State; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate. (2) The Secretary of the Treasury; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Finance of the Senate, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. (3) The Secretary of Defense; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate and the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate. (4) The Attorney General; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate and the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate. (5) The Secretary of the Interior; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate, and the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate. (6) The Secretary of Agriculture; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. (7) The Secretary of Commerce; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate. (8) The Secretary of Labor; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Education and Workforce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate. (9) The Secretary of Health and Human Services; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Finance of the Senate, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate. (10) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. (11) The Secretary of Transportation; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate. (12) The Secretary of Energy; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. (13) The Secretary of Education; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Education and Workforce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate. (14) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate and the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate. (15) The Secretary of Homeland Security; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate. (16) The United States Trade Representative; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate. (17) The Director of National Intelligence; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate. (18) The Director of the Office of Management and Budget; the Committees on Appropriations and the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate. (19) The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate. (20) The Administrator of the Small Business Administration; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate. (21) The Chair of the Federal Reserve Board; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. (22) The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate. (23) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigations; the Committees on Appropriations and the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate. (24) The Chair of the Securities and Exchange Commission; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. (25) The Administrator of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate. (26) The Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate. (27) The Chair of the Federal Trade Commission; the Committees on Appropriations and the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate. (28) The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate. (29) The Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on the Environment and Public Works of the Senate. (30) The Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service; the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Finance of the Senate. .
##### (b) Clerical amendment
The table of contents for subchapter II of chapter 29 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:
2955. Annual briefing to Congress. .


## Timeline

- 2025-12-04: Introduced in House
- 2025-12-04 - IntroReferral: Introduced in House
- 2025-12-04 - IntroReferral: Introduced in House
- 2025-12-04 - IntroReferral: Referred to the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.
- Latest action: 2025-12-04: Introduced in House
